RECORDS ACCESS OFFICER
NYC POLICE DEPARTMENT
F.O.I.L. UNIT – LEGAL BUREAU
ONE POLICE PLAZA, ROOM 110-C
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10038

Dear Records Access Officer:
This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act.
I request that a copy of the following documents [or documents containing the following information] be provided to me:
A document containing a list of all the current billing zip codes for all NYPD employees as well as their current precinct or office location. Example


Billing Zip Code
Precinct
10016
32nd
10025
32nd

	

10016
10025
10025
10024
10023


As you can see, there is no personally identifiable or other information included or required in this request.

If the above request is too laborious to collate, perhaps in its stead simply provide the same data but for only officers of the 32nd Precinct. 

In order to help to determine my status to assess fees, you should know that I am an individual seeking information for personal use and not for a commercial use.

I request a waiver of all fees for this request. Disclosure of the requested information to me is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in my commercial interest. 

I do, however, understand that your department is not required to create a record if one does not exist. Therefore, if you are unable to provide the requested data in that format, please provide whatever records you do have that would allow me to compile my own database of distances between police employees residential zip codes and their work precincts.

I ask that the data be provided in an Excel spreadsheet, csv or other delimited text file or other database format. If you have this information in an existing report, that may suffice.


As a concerned citizen it is my belief that the New York City Police Department is largely made of up non-NYC residents and more specifically that efforts to foster so called “community policing” will fail because the officers representing the police force are far removed from the communities they are policing. It is my intention to simply discover and present publicly any conclusions as to the approximate distance between officers current communities and the communities they are policing. It is my hope that by illustrating this simple discrepancy, change can be enacted to make “community policing” truly from and by members of the community. 

Thank you for your consideration of this request.
Sincerely,
 
Alex Bell


