Appeal

November 11, 2015

Mr. Jonathan David

Records Access Appeals Officer

New York City Police Department

One Police Plaza-Room 1406

New York, NY 10038-1497 

RE:  Appeal of Rejection of FOIL Request 2015-PL-10466

Dear Mr. David: 

I write to appeal the rejection of my FOIL request for certain demographic data 

kept and maintained by the New York City Police Department.  My FOIL request was 

assigned number 2015-PL-10466.  The letter of rejection from which I appeal is dated 

October 22, 2015, a copy of which is annexed, along with my original request. 

My request is for information on the current residential zip codes for all NYPD 

employees, as well as their precinct assignment.  As an example, I provided the 

following table:

[insert] 

My request is for aggregate data.  It was denied on the grounds of Public Officer 

Law Section 87 (2)(a) referencing Civil Rights Law Section 50-a and Public Officer Law 

Section 87 (2)(e).  Neither claimed exemption from the Department’s duty of broad 

public disclosure has merit.

1.  Public Officer Law 87 (2)(a) and Civil Rights Law Section 50-a 

 First, I have not requested any personal information for specific employees, and 

thus my request cannot be for disclosure of any private information. Second, I have not 

requested any “personnel records”.  Civil Rights Law Section 50-a exempts from public 

disclosure “all personnel records used to evaluate performance toward continued 

employment or promotion”.  Nothing in my request can affect the performance 

evaluation for continued employment for any employee as I have not asked for specific, 

individual information.  A plain language reading of the statute does not support the 

NYPD position; neither does the legislative history offer any justification for the instant 

rejection. See Prisoner’s Legal Services v. New York State Dep’t of Corrections, 73 

N.Y.2d 26, 31-32 (1988) (“the legislative purpose underlying section 50-a …was the 

same: to protect the officers from the use of records –including unsubstantiated and 

irrelevant complaints of misconduct—as a means for harassment and reprisals and for 

purposes of cross-examination by plaintiff’s counsel during litigation” citations omitted) 

As the Court of Appeals has repeatedly held: there must be a showing that the 

requested information "falls squarely within a FOIL exemption by articulating a 

particularized and specific justification for denying access" Capital Newspapers Div. of 

Hearst Corp. v. Burns, 67 N.Y.2d 576 (1986) 

2)   Public Officers Law Section 87 (2)(e).   

Section 87 (2) (e) provides in pertinent part:

Each agency shall, in accordance with its published rules, make available for 

public inspection and copying all records, except that such agency may deny 

access to records or portions thereof that:

     (e) are compiled for law enforcement purposes and which, if disclosed, would:

         i. interfere with law enforcement investigations or judicial proceedings;

         ii. deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or impartial adjudication;

         iii. identify a confidential source or disclose confidential information relating 

to a criminal investigation; or

         iv. reveal criminal investigative techniques or procedures, except routine 

techniques and procedures;

Public Officers Law Section 87 (2)(e) (McKinney’s 2015)

The law enforcement exemption fails for the same reason as the claimed 

personnel records privacy exemption.  My request is for aggregate demographic 

employee information and not disclosure of individual law enforcement proceedings, 

trials, confidential sources or information or investigatory techniques and procedures. 

The NYPD’s rejection based on plainly inapposite exemptions must be reversed 

and the information requested produced immediately. As the Court of Appeals has held: 

“blanket exemptions for certain types of documents are inimical to FOIL’s policy of open 

government.” Gould v. New York City Police Department, 89 N.Y.2d 267, 275 (1996) 

Thank you. 

Respectfully, 

Alex Bell


